A great way to play with wordpress for your coursework and for building WordPress sites is to install
I introduced several free options that make it easy to install WordPress locally in this video.
You'll use the free program called Map to install a local server on your computer and create a local
Then you'll learn how to install WordPress manually because everyone's computer is different.
If you have any issues with map working on your computer.
You can also use desktop server instant W.P. or even your free site Ground hosting account to install
You'll learn about how WordPress works between its file structure and connection to a database which
Let's get started.
Start by opening up your browser and navigating to map that info.
The installation and setup process might be slightly different depending on whether you are on a Windows
make sure that Windows is the box that's checked down here and then I'm going to download the correct
It usually will detect the type of operating system that you're on and when you hit the download button
it'll open a dialog box and you can click save file.
It's going to take a few minutes here and I'll pause the video while that downloads now that it's downloaded
you can just double click the easy button or whatever the file was that it downloaded and click run
in Windows.
It wants my permission to start and installing package and I'll just keep keep clicking next.
I don't want map pro because we don't really need it for our purposes.
Except the license agreement.
You don't want to install it right directly onto your C-drive
and I'm going to install it anyway because I already did have a map folder installed previously.
Sure you can create a desktop icon and click install plus the video while this happens and then we'll
Ok now that it's finished installing I can click the finished button and now all that's left is to go
and open map it either put an icon on your desktop or you can use the start window and map is opening
And when those two green lights light up I'll know that it's activated and I'll go look at the preferences
start page Yareli slash map that's fine and let's look at what we have for the web server H.T. docs.
I'm going to put the Wordpress files into this folder see and map HD docs so that I can access it as
the web server and then I'll set up the database and install WordPress.
So let's get started first by going to get get rid of this settings preferences screen and or click
Open start page.
I know that I am installed and map is running in the background.
Now I've got a server set up on my local computer and I can install WordPress along with the database
and get it going so I'll navigate to WordPress dot org.
And up at the top right click the download button and they'll take me to this download page the latest
At this point is down is WordPress 4.5 newly released yesterday and click save file.
And those are all the word press corps files.
So now open up windows explorer and I'll move these files around to where I want them.
First let's go to the downloads page here.
My downloads folder I mean.
And then I'm going to just navigate on my computer to my Web site company folder and my wordpress folder
now make a new folder for Wordpress 4.5
usually use a dash instead of a dot or just word for 5.
Here it is.
Now if I right click in Windows and click extract all I can unzip the zip file
has the video where that happens.
There we go.
Now I've got a folder that contains another folder called WordPress.
And inside that folder are the word press corps files.
bunch of PH P files that are part of the word press corps files.
Now what I'm going to do is go to that map folder under Windows see Colin and map and here are all the
And I know that H.T. docks is where we keep documents and actually have some from a previous map installation
some WordPress installation folders that I have here from different versions of Wordpress I've been
But I'll create a new one.
And as you can see I usually call these local one local to I'm actually going to call this repeater
of course one I repeat of course one.
And inside that folder I want to put all the word press core files and folders and I want to keep my
So as I drag them across my windows machine I get to hold control and copy these over to the HD Docs
map but slash charity of course one
there's going to be an error.
We haven't connected the Wordpress installation with its configuration file to the database yet.
Now it seems that WordPress is there and it wants to begin the installation.
And if I start they need some information from the database.
So I'm going to need these and they're going to try to create the W.P. config file.
Now you can use this.
But let's do this completely manually using a text editor so that you guys know how to set up WordPress
So I'm just going to go ahead and go back to this screen and leave it there for now.
And let's go ahead and open our files up again.
Now the file I'm looking for is called W.P. dash config dash sample and it's a PDP file so I know it's
Hopefully you got set up with a code editor like Notepad plus plus or Adam.
And if I just right click on it in Windows I can open it with the file I want.
So do that.
And we're actually going to save it as W.P. dash config dot ph p.
That's the file that WordPress is configured to use for its configuration information.
It's where we put the credentials for the database.
Among other security issues.
So I've got this open in Adam and I'm in a click File Save As and I do want to save it in the exact
have the right extension on there.
So here we go I have got the desk config that HP and up here it shows me where it's located so I know
There it is.
So as we go down here we have a place we can enter the database name the database username password
and then the database host which in a lot of cases even on a live server is called localhost.
So now I need to set up the database within map so that I can put the credentials here and let WordPress
connect to the database.
And then I can click Open start page and again that'll open my browser
and it should open the start page in another tab.
It goes.
I can verify that here up here localhost slash map.
Great now that I'm at a map start page down here under my sequel my Escudo I have a little button called
my admin if I click that button it'll open up an administrative panel for the database.
You can see that there's some other database segments in there from other installations.
But what you need to do from this page that first opens up the server server can local host you click
And it says that it's loading.
What that's doing is creating a new database.
And I need to name it.
I'm going to name it
the same thing as my wordpress installation folder and click Create gives you a success message database
WB.
Of course one has been created.
And if I click on it you can see that there's no tables found in the database.
So now that we have the database created map uses a standard set of credentials and that's what we'll
The database name that I just created
and the username and password you'd never want to use this in a live site because it's not secure but
the word root and the password is the word root.
There is one more configuration you might check.
And that's the database host.
Just go back to P-H PMI admin and look at your empty database and look at it says localhost right up
Mine is localhost Colan 3 3 0 6 and so I'm going to use that credential for the database first.
And control S and save where you can use file save.
Now these credentials are also visible back in the map start page under my sequel.
The host is there and the port is what you have to put coal in 3 3 0 6 and then user and password are
Now I should be able to go back to my browser navigate to localhost slash the repeat.
So I continue and it's connected to the database.
I could just make a title for the site choose my user name make sure I remember this password.
I just hit Control C for copy put an email address in and click install WordPress.
I am going to open up Notepad.
Just make sure that while I have that password on my clipboard that I have control V and just save it
right there make sure I don't get rid of that success.
Click log in
great.
I have a new fresh WordPress installation on my local computer and if we take just just real quick.
Need to open it up open the site up a new tab and look at the front end of a fresh installation and
Not on the internet.
Just on my local machine.
In this video you installed a map on your local computer.
Set up a database.
Edited the WP dash config file and install WordPress.
totally in private as much as you want.
Next we'll explore the inner workings of your new local WordPress installation to get to know how everything
See there